README.md, before:

# JMeter ec2 Script
-----------------------------

This project is based on the https://github.com/oliverlloyd/jmeter-ec2 tool.
We've added few extension and modifitcations.
If all pre-requisits are met, script will automatically download all required
tools and plugins.
Original script was modified in way that to make it as standalone as possible. 
This means that the section in the original project description about the 
pre-requisits and system variables is not valid anymore apart from the JAVA\_HOME


## Modified Pre-requisits
1. java 6+ `required to locally generate graphs`
2. CLI tools: scp, wget, zip, unzip, grep `required to download: jmeter with plugins, ec2 tools, results from nodes`
3. an EC2 account, a key pair pem file along with AWS Access Key ID & Secret Access Key


Obtain your:
* Key Pair pem file [here](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=us-east-1#s=KeyPairs)
* and Access Key ID & Secret Access Key at the [Security Credentials](https://portal.aws.amazon.com/gp/aws/securityCredentials) page


Then:
* Save the pem file in the ./ec2 folder
* Change the pem file properties to 400, i.e. chmod 400 ./ec2/thisipemfile.pem
* Create a copy of the 'secrets.properties' file and prepend your user name to its name. (\*)
* Add your Access Key ID and Access Secret Key is that file


(\*) e.g. if your user name is 'jk', then file should be named: jk\_secrets.properties


## How to configure the tool setting
Edit the file jmeter-ec2.properties and follow instruction inside that file.

You can also create also a custom cfg file i.e. per specific environment and use
it by passing "cfg" parameter to the jmeter-ec2.sh. This can be handy when running
tests on local machines and non on EC2

```bash
    project="drKingShultz" cfg="your_custom_cfg_file.properties" ./jmeter-ec2.sh
```

## How to configure your jmeter (jmx) project file
Please refer to the example "drKingShultz" project for more details.

To get more control over the generated load it's recommended to use:
Utlimate Thread Group plugin.

Once you've added such a thread to your project, to produce all the nice graphs,
it's required to add four listeners to your project:
* two to the thread groop
    * jp@gc LatenciesOverTime
    * Generate Summary Results
* and two outside of the thread group
    * 2 PerfMon Collector listeners (local & remote)

Having all listeners in place, the next step is to configure them.
* Generate Summary Results 
    * fortunately it doesn't require any configuration, but please don't change the name of it :)
* jp@gc LatenciesOverTime
    * should write it's results down to a "~/result.jtl" file.
* 2 PerfMon Collector listeners (local & remote)
    * Remote one should write results in: ~/PerfMon-remote.jtl
    * and Local one should write down to: ~/PerfMon-local.jtl

Both jp@gc LatenciesOverTime and PerfMon Collectors should be configured just like this:
![alt text](./resources/SampleResultSaveConfiguration.png "Sample Result Save Configuration")

ps. click on the "Configure" button to get that config windows above :)


### Why do we need those listeners:
Generate Summary Results is used to show status updates while running your tests

jp@gc Latencies Over Time result file is used to generate most of the graphs.

PerfMon Collector listeners, will collect stat data from the:
* machines you're running your test against  
* and from the EC2 machines running your jmeter tests
In both cases we're using [server-agent](http://code.google.com/p/jmeter-plugins/wiki/PerfMonAgent) to collect that data


## How to run your project
Once you JMeter project is ready to flood the SUT, create a folder with the same
name as the jmx file, and then inside that folder create a jmx subfolder and finally
place the jmx file there. For example if the project file name is 
"drKingShultz.jmx" then the folder structure is:

    jmeter-ec2
        |
        \drKingShultz
            |
            \jmx
                |
                \drKingShultz.jmx


At the moment this script works well on Linux OSes, and can be executed 
locally or on CI system like Jenkins.

## How to run it locally
Once you have your environment configured, select the project you want to run.
Then simply run it:

```bash
    project="drKingShultz" count="2" ./jmeter-ec2.sh
```

Where "count" stands for the number of EC2 instances to be launched

To get a bit more verbose output, enable DEBUG mode :
```bash
    DEBUG=true project="drKingShultz" count="2" ./jmeter-ec2.sh
```

## How to run in on Jenkins
Create a new job:

Mark 'This build is parameterized' as enabled.
Then:
* add 'File parameter' and set 'File location' to 'test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem'
* add 'Password Parameter' named 'AWS\_ACCESS\_KEY' with no default value
* add 'Password Parameter' named 'AWS\_SECRET\_KEY' with no default value
* add 'String parameter' name 'JAVA\_HOME' with default value poitning at the JAVA dir on the Jenkins

in the "Build" section add "Execute shell" and paste the code below:
```bash
    # change permission for keys
    if [ -e test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem ]; then
        chmod 600 test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem
    fi;

    # run the tests
    cd test/jmeter-ec2
    project="drKingShultz" count="2" ./jmeter-ec2.sh
    cd ../..

    # remove the unnecessary pem file
    # will prevent errors when trying to overide pem file on a new build 
    if [ -e test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem ]; then
        rm test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem
    fi;
```

## Reports
Once test run is done, you can find a HTML report in the:

    jmeter-ec2
        |
        \drKingShultz
            |
            \results

Report file name will start with the Datetime when test was run: %Y-%m-%d-%H\_%M-report.html 
* ie: 2013-03-22-09\_56-report.html 


## How to generate graphs from long test runs

By default this script generates graphs with size 1920x1200px
In case you need to process result files from very long test runs, you can use
analyzeZippedResults.sh script for this purpose.

```bash
    FILES="path/to/a/folder/with/result/files/file_name_pattern_with_an_asterisk-*.zip" WIDTH=20000 HEIGHT=1080 ./analyzeZippedResults.sh
```

Where:
* FILES -  [MANDATORY] A path to zipped result files. User can use an asterisk to process multiple files (i.e.: from multiple nodes). Just like you'd use 'ls' command to list all the files you want to process.
* WIDTH -  [OPTIONAL] sets the width of the generated graphs, default is 1920
* HEIGHT - [OPTIONAL] sets the height of the generated graphs, defaul is 1200
* JMETER - [OPTIONAL] is the path to jmeter folder with JMeterPlugins
* TARGET - [OPTIONAL] parameter that defines where output report with graphs will be stored. If not provided then "./target" will be used
* DEBUG -  [OPTIONAL] parameter that enables more verbose output, use DEBUG=true


## Original description:
----------------------------

Is available @ [jmeter-ec2](https://github.com/oliverlloyd/jmeter-ec2) page.

Commit message:

Added .gitattributes to treat jmx files as binaries, so that we' don't see them in diff
When runing with width>1920 and height>1080 few graphs will default to 1920x1080

From now on we're using a simple bootstrap scafolding for reports generated automatically and manually

README.md, after:

# Gee - a JMeter EC2/Remote host Runner
-----------------------------

This project is based on the Oliver Lloyd's [jmeter-ec2](https://github.com/oliverlloyd/jmeter-ec2) project.
I've added few extension and modifitcations, like:
* custom config files that are not commited to the repo
* generate reports automatically using [JMeterPluginsCMD](https://code.google.com/p/jmeter-plugins/wiki/JMeterPluginsCMD)
* generate reports manually from zipped result files using JMeterPluginsCMD
* start PerfMon server agent on load generatign nodes
* install jmeter-plugins
* simple integration with [Jenkins CI](http://jenkins-ci.org/)

If all pre-requisits are met, script will automatically download all required
tools and plugins.
Original script was modified in way that to make it as standalone as possible. 
This means that the section in the original project description about the 
pre-requisits and system variables is not valid anymore apart from the JAVA\_HOME


## Modified Pre-requisits
1. java 6+ with JAVA\_HOME sys variable set `required to locally generate graphs`
2. CLI tools: scp, wget, zip, unzip, grep `required to download: jmeter with plugins, ec2 tools, results from nodes`
3. an EC2 account, a key pair pem file along with AWS Access Key ID & Secret Access Key


Obtain your:
* Key Pair pem file [here](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=us-east-1#s=KeyPairs)
* and Access Key ID & Secret Access Key at the [Security Credentials](https://portal.aws.amazon.com/gp/aws/securityCredentials) page


Then:
* Save the pem file in the ./ec2 folder
* Change the pem file properties to 400, i.e. chmod 400 ./ec2/thisipemfile.pem
* Create a copy of the 'secrets.properties' file and prepend your user name to its name. (\*)
* Add your Access Key ID and Access Secret Key is that file


(\*) e.g. if your user name is 'jk', then file should be named: jk\_secrets.properties


## How to configure the tool setting
Edit the file jmeter-ec2.properties and follow instruction inside that file.

You can also create also a custom cfg file i.e. per specific environment and use
it by passing "cfg" parameter to the jmeter-ec2.sh. This can be handy when running
tests on local machines and non on EC2

```bash
    project="drKingShultz" cfg="your_custom_cfg_file.properties" ./jmeter-ec2.sh
```

## How to configure your jmeter (jmx) project file
Please refer to the example "drKingShultz" project for more details.

To get more control over the generated load it's recommended to use:
Utlimate Thread Group plugin.

Once you've added such a thread to your project, to produce all the nice graphs,
it's required to add four listeners to your project:
* two to the thread groop
    * jp@gc LatenciesOverTime
    * Generate Summary Results
* and two outside of the thread group
    * 2 PerfMon Collector listeners (local & remote)

Having all listeners in place, the next step is to configure them.
* Generate Summary Results 
    * fortunately it doesn't require any configuration, but please don't change the name of it :)
* jp@gc LatenciesOverTime
    * should write it's results down to a "~/result.jtl" file.
* 2 PerfMon Collector listeners (local & remote)
    * Remote one should write results in: ~/PerfMon-remote.jtl
    * and Local one should write down to: ~/PerfMon-local.jtl

Both jp@gc LatenciesOverTime and PerfMon Collectors should be configured just like this:
![alt text](./resources/SampleResultSaveConfiguration.png "Sample Result Save Configuration")

ps. click on the "Configure" button to get that config windows above :)


### Why do we need those listeners:
Generate Summary Results is used to show status updates while running your tests

jp@gc Latencies Over Time result file is used to generate most of the graphs.

PerfMon Collector listeners, will collect stat data from the:
* machines you're running your test against  
* and from the EC2 machines running your jmeter tests
In both cases we're using [server-agent](http://code.google.com/p/jmeter-plugins/wiki/PerfMonAgent) to collect that data


## How to run your project
Once you JMeter project is ready to flood the SUT, create a folder with the same
name as the jmx file, and then inside that folder create a jmx subfolder and finally
place the jmx file there. For example if the project file name is 
"drKingShultz.jmx" then the folder structure is:

    jmeter-ec2
        |
        \drKingShultz
            |
            \jmx
                |
                \drKingShultz.jmx


At the moment this script works well on Linux OSes, and can be executed 
locally or on CI system like Jenkins.

## How to run it locally
Once you have your environment configured, select the project you want to run.
Then simply run it:

```bash
    project="drKingShultz" count="2" ./jmeter-ec2.sh
```

Where "count" stands for the number of EC2 instances to be launched

To get a bit more verbose output, enable DEBUG mode :
```bash
    DEBUG=true project="drKingShultz" count="2" ./jmeter-ec2.sh
```

## How to run in on Jenkins
Create a new job:

Mark 'This build is parameterized' as enabled.
Then:
* add 'File parameter' and set 'File location' to 'test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem'
* add 'Password Parameter' named 'AWS\_ACCESS\_KEY' with no default value
* add 'Password Parameter' named 'AWS\_SECRET\_KEY' with no default value
* add 'String parameter' name 'JAVA\_HOME' with default value poitning at the JAVA dir on the Jenkins

in the "Build" section add "Execute shell" and paste the code below:
```bash
    # change permission for keys
    if [ -e test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem ]; then
        chmod 600 test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem
    fi;

    # run the tests
    cd test/jmeter-ec2
    project="drKingShultz" count="2" ./jmeter-ec2.sh
    cd ../..

    # remove the unnecessary pem file
    # will prevent errors when trying to overide pem file on a new build 
    if [ -e test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem ]; then
        rm test/jmeter-ec2/ec2/jmeter-ec2.pem
    fi;
```

## Reports
Once test run is done, you can find a HTML report in the:

    jmeter-ec2
        |
        \drKingShultz
            |
            \results

Report file name will start with the Datetime when test was run: %Y-%m-%d-%H\_%M-report.html 
* ie: 2013-03-22-09\_56-report.html 


## How to generate graphs from long test runs

By default this script generates graphs with size 1920x1200px
In case you need to process result files from very long test runs, you can use
analyzeZippedResults.sh script for this purpose.

```bash
    FILES="path/to/a/folder/with/result/files/file_name_pattern_with_an_asterisk-*.zip" WIDTH=20000 HEIGHT=1080 ./analyzeZippedResults.sh
```

Where:
* FILES -  [MANDATORY] A path to zipped result files. User can use an asterisk to process multiple files (i.e.: from multiple nodes). Just like you'd use 'ls' command to list all the files you want to process.
* WIDTH -  [OPTIONAL] sets the width of the generated graphs, default is 1920
* HEIGHT - [OPTIONAL] sets the height of the generated graphs, defaul is 1200
* JMETER - [OPTIONAL] is the path to jmeter folder with JMeterPlugins
* TARGET - [OPTIONAL] parameter that defines where output report with graphs will be stored. If not provided then "./target" will be used
* DEBUG -  [OPTIONAL] parameter that enables more verbose output, use DEBUG=true


## Original description:
----------------------------

Is available @ [jmeter-ec2](https://github.com/oliverlloyd/jmeter-ec2) page.
